<ns0:entry xmlns:ns0="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" xmlns:ns1="http://schemas.google.com/g/2005" xmlns:ns2="http://schemas.google.com/projecthosting/issues/2009" ns1:etag="W/&quot;C0QDRn47eCl7ImA9WhdbEEw.&quot;">
		<ns0:id>http://code.google.com/feeds/issues/p/nativeclient/issues/full/671</ns0:id><ns0:author>
			<ns0:name>mseaborn@chromium.org</ns0:name><ns0:uri>/u/mseaborn@chromium.org/</ns0:uri></ns0:author><ns0:content type="html">nacl-glibc currently requires a subset of the Linux kernel headers at
build time.

This can be seen firstly as a result of a temporary convenience:
nacl-glibc has taken the Linux build of glibc as a starting point
(because it is a known quantity), and the dependencies on Linux
headers have not been removed yet.

A result of this is that nacl-glibc shares the same ABI as Linux glibc
in terms of functions, struct layouts, constants, library sonames,
etc.  (There are some exceptions where features are not supported by
the NaCl sandbox, e.g. preserving all registers across PLT function
calls.)

This is in contrast with other ports of glibc, such as Hurd glibc
(upstream) and FreeBSD glibc (not upstream), which have ABIs
incompatible with Linux glibc.  e.g. Hurd glibc uses a different libc
soname.

Using the same ABI as Linux glibc keeps things simple.  We don't have
to worry about keeping track of where we have diverged, because we
haven't (at least not intentionally).  It also helps ensure that
anything that builds with Linux glibc also builds with nacl-glibc.
From this point of view, using the Linux kernel headers doesn't seem
so bad.

It might make sense to revisit this later for PNaCl.

However the upshot is:

The nacl-glibc toolchain build (issue 597) isn't complete because
there is an undeclared dependency and manual step for setting up the
Linux headers.  We need to automate this and put a subset of the
headers somewhere suitable that the toolchain build can use.
</ns0:content><ns0:updated>2011-10-07T18:16:17.000Z</ns0:updated><ns0:published>2010-07-05T22:41:00.000Z</ns0:published><ns2:status>Available</ns2:status><ns2:cc>
			<ns2:uri>/u/101628056640429344673/</ns2:uri><ns2:username>pa...@google.com</ns2:username></ns2:cc><ns2:cc>
			<ns2:uri>/u/103360015124260446450/</ns2:uri><ns2:username>eaelt...@google.com</ns2:username></ns2:cc><ns2:cc>
			<ns2:uri>/u/mseaborn@chromium.org/</ns2:uri><ns2:username>mseaborn@chromium.org</ns2:username></ns2:cc><ns2:state>open</ns2:state><ns0:title>nacl-glibc requires Linux kernel headers to build</ns0:title><ns2:label>Type-Enhancement</ns2:label><ns2:label>Pri-2</ns2:label><ns2:label>DynamicLinking</ns2:label><ns2:label>Component-PNaCl</ns2:label><ns2:label>Component-GLibC</ns2:label><ns2:label>Mstone-X</ns2:label><ns0:link href="http://code.google.com/feeds/issues/p/nativeclient/issues/671/comments/full" rel="replies" type="application/atom+xml" /><ns0:link href="http://code.google.com/p/nativeclient/issues/detail?id=671" rel="alternate" type="text/html" /><ns0:link href="https://code.google.com/feeds/issues/p/nativeclient/issues/full/671" rel="self" type="application/atom+xml" /><ns2:stars>1</ns2:stars><ns2:id>671</ns2:id></ns0:entry>