<ns0:entry xmlns:ns0="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" xmlns:ns1="http://schemas.google.com/g/2005" xmlns:ns2="http://schemas.google.com/projecthosting/issues/2009" ns1:etag="W/&quot;CkQBQH47eCl7ImA9WhdRFU0.&quot;">
		<ns0:id>http://code.google.com/feeds/issues/p/nativeclient/issues/full/564</ns0:id><ns0:author>
			<ns0:name>mseaborn@chromium.org</ns0:name><ns0:uri>/u/mseaborn@chromium.org/</ns0:uri></ns0:author><ns0:content type="html">NaCl uses two non-standard values in the ELF headers of executables:

  /*
   * The ELF OS ABI marker for a NativeClient module.
   * TODO(sehr): Get real values approved by the appropriate authorities.
   */
  #define ELFOSABI_NACL 123
  /*
   * ABI version - increment when ABI changes are incompatible. ...
   */
  #define EF_NACL_ABIVERSION 7

This is not really the right thing to do, especially when it comes to
dynamic linking.

Clearly we cannot keep bumping ABIVERSION, because it breaks
compatibility.  However, even when ABIVERSION has been incremented,
the rules for doing so are murky.

If we change syscall interfaces, arguably we should change syscall
numbers instead.  We shouldn't require dynamically-linked executables
to be rebuilt, because they generally don't do syscalls directly.
Only libc.so and ld.so need to know about a syscall ABI.

If we change the ABI of the browser plugin, we shouldn't change
ABIVERSION, because the plugin ABI is not part of core NaCl.
Versioning of the browser ABI should be done via IPC messages, not via
executable headers.

I think we are also abusing the OSABI field.  The intended use of this
field, according to the glibc maintainers, is to indicate the version
of the *ELF* ABI, so that it should only be set to a non-zero value if
the ELF file uses extensions to ELF itself.  It does not refer to ABIs
that the code inside the ELF file might use or follow.  Since NaCl
does not use any ELF extensions, we should set this to zero.

e.g. See this thread:
http://www.sourceware.org/ml/binutils/2000-11/msg00367.html
  &amp;quot;It isn't really correct to use this field to discern the intendend
  execution platform.  It's purpose is really to tell ELF tools that a
  file contains fields and values that need to be interpreted in a
  non-standard way.&amp;quot;

For more context:

The Linux kernel's ELF loader does not care about OSABI or ABIVERSION,
and it will load executables with any values in these fields.

glibc's dynamic linker requires both these fields to be zero.

I don't intend to change glibc's dynamic linker to require
NaCl-specific values of OSABI/ABIVERSION, so I'm going to disable the
dynamic linker's checks for OSABI/ABIVERSION for the time being.  I
think we should change the NaCl toolchain to set these to zero; then I
will re-enable the check.

*If* we want NaCl static executables to contain an identifying mark
(and I'm not convinced this is really necessary), we could use the
PT_NOTE ELF header.  This has two advantages:

 * It is extensible, because it is not limited to a byte or two in
   the fixed-size ELF file header.

 * Its contents can be controlled at link time, by linking in an
   abi-note.o file containing an .ABI-note section.  Hence we don't
   have to hack the toolchains to change OSABI/ABIVERSION.  We can
   include ABI notes only in ELF objects that need them, e.g. static
   executables but not dynamic executables or libraries.
</ns0:content><ns0:updated>2011-08-04T23:25:51.000Z</ns0:updated><ns0:published>2010-06-04T18:31:22.000Z</ns0:published><ns2:status>Fixed</ns2:status><ns2:owner>
			<ns2:uri>/u/109286297231979736865/</ns2:uri><ns2:username>mcgra...@chromium.org</ns2:username></ns2:owner><ns2:cc>
			<ns2:uri>/u/cbiffle@google.com/</ns2:uri><ns2:username>cbiffle@google.com</ns2:username></ns2:cc><ns2:cc>
			<ns2:uri>/u/mseaborn@chromium.org/</ns2:uri><ns2:username>mseaborn@chromium.org</ns2:username></ns2:cc><ns2:state>closed</ns2:state><ns0:title>NaCl-specific ELF OSABI/ABIVERSION values are not suitable for dynamic linking</ns0:title><ns2:label>Type-Defect</ns2:label><ns2:label>DynamicLinking</ns2:label><ns2:label>Pri-1</ns2:label><ns2:label>Mstone-15</ns2:label><ns0:link href="http://code.google.com/feeds/issues/p/nativeclient/issues/564/comments/full" rel="replies" type="application/atom+xml" /><ns0:link href="http://code.google.com/p/nativeclient/issues/detail?id=564" rel="alternate" type="text/html" /><ns0:link href="https://code.google.com/feeds/issues/p/nativeclient/issues/full/564" rel="self" type="application/atom+xml" /><ns2:stars>1</ns2:stars><ns2:blocking>
			<ns2:id>565</ns2:id></ns2:blocking><ns2:closedDate>2011-08-01T23:47:55.000Z</ns2:closedDate><ns2:id>564</ns2:id></ns0:entry>